Hey,
guys,
Welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the workbook new chart event.
So the workbook,
new chart event,
whatever code you right in there gets triggered whenever you insert a new charts on your
workbook.
OK?
So you can get it by going to the VB editor and double clicking on this workbook on,
then selecting workbook from this menu and selecting new chart from this menu here.
Now,
whatever code you enter in here is going to be triggered by inserting in you chart message
box.
For example,
you have inserted in you chart,
Okay?
And now,
if I try to insert you chart lists,
they have got some sales figures here.
Justin,
insert a new chart here.
One of the recommended charts.
This Clustered column looks fine.
A vase of inserted short and you can see here the message box bumped a clicked.
Okay.
And then the chart appears.
Okay,
So had gusts triggered whenever you insert a new chart on,
actually,
it works before the chart.
It's inserted on your workbook.
Okay,
so maybe you want to do something more complicated with the new chart than just display a
message box.
So Maybe you want to change the charts Title,
for example,
Have a certain title whenever you insert a new chart.
So you can do that with the workbook.
New charts event.
So in this workbook new chart event,
actually,
there is you parameter here called ch,
which is basically an object variable that it's type is a chart.
Okay,
so it has all the methods and properties for a chart object in Excel,
so we could write ch ok dot And then we will have all the methods and properties for a
chart,
and then we're just gonna change our chart titles are going to write sieged chart title,
and then this produces a chart title object and it has a property cold text case of dot
Taxed equals my chart,
for example.
Okay,
so that whenever I insert a new chart,
I would have it named as my charter would have its title as my my chart.
So let's try that.
So I'm gonna delete here my previous chart and I'm gonna insert a new charge.
I'm gonna highlight my dates.
Ah,
go to insert.
I'm gonna go to recommended charts here and select this chart here again.
Click Okay.
As you can see here,
the title is now my charts.
Whenever you insert a new chart,
its title is gonna be my chart.
You could also use the workbook new chart,
object to maybe have Cem default colors for your charts,
or maybe have a set of default colors for your charts so that whenever you insert a chart,
it would be inserted with certain colors,
maybe the colors of your brand,
for example.
But actually,
there's another way the I prefer to use rather than vb a code.
But I'll show you how to do it with VB a code,
and then I'll show you the other ways.
So,
basically,
to do that with VB,
a code actually is very hard to memorize the methods and properties for charts and stuff
because there are lots of details in them.
So,
actually,
as one of the methods to learn about a certain object is to actually record a macron with
discussed at the beginning of the course.
And we said that as one of the methods to learn V B.
A is to actually record macros and examine the code.
So this is when this comes handy,
so I can actually select this chart here.
And let's say I wanna change its colors.
Okay,
so maybe here on this style,
I'll go to Colors.
Okay.
On this chart styles year,
I'll go to color and maybe give it some cars.
You know,
just check.
Maybe I want this template here color three.
So I won't every chart to have this set of colors.
Okay,
so what I'm gonna do here,
I'm gonna put everything back to what it was.
I'm gonna do that using the macro recorder.
Okay,
so I'm gonna record a macro.
I'm gonna go to the developer tab on the ribbon here,
click on record,
Macro.
And maybe I'll call it Chart Macro something.
They'll call it chart Macro Click.
OK,
And then I select my chart and I'll start editing its color case will go to that color here
,
so have changed the color of the chart and now will stop recording.
OK,
and now let's examine the code that I've recorded Case I'll open the macro here.
I'll go to Makro Zero and click on edit to check the code that I've recorded.
As you can see here on the active sheets,
I'm selecting,
asserting charge.
I'm activating.
I don't need that.
I actually needs this one here.
The chart color property to be said to be equal to 12.
This is the part I actually need.
So just copy that and I'll go to my event and then I'll right here ch dot Short color
equals 12.
Actually,
I just duplicated that.
Okay,
so ch short color equals 12.
And now I'll just delete my chart here and try inserting and you chart and let's see what
happens.
So just sign like my data again.
Go to recommend the charts,
select its short here.
Look.
OK,
As you can see here,
the chart has been inserted with the color that we specified on the event and that we have
obtained through recording.
Okay,
so this is when recording is useful.
Really?
Because there are Sometimes there's some objects that you don't know everything about.
And,
ah,
it's actually easier to record than even to research Google.
Or maybe you can record and get the name of the certain method or property for that object
that you're searching for,
or that you want to modify or play with.
And then you can take it on Google.
You can search it on Google,
understand everything about it and then,
you know,
go back to excel on,
start playing with it.
Okay,
so this is when recording is useful.
So I mentioned before that there's another way actually to do this.
That is easier.
Or my opinion it's easier.
Okay,
So I'm just going to leave my charts here,
and I'm going to go to the V B A code.
I'm gonna delete the code in the event so that he wouldn't be executed.
And actually,
there's a nun vb a method which I believe is easier.
Okay,
So I'm going to highlight my data again here and insert the new chart,
and then what I'm gonna do.
Okay,
so I've inserted my chart.
Maybe I don't like this color.
I want another color,
so I'll choose that color.
I'll choose that one here,
and then I can save this chart as a template.
Okay.
So you can right click on it and click conceive this template and save a template.
I'll call it Chart one,
for example.
This is a previous template.
I say they don't need.
I'll just replace it.
So I clicked Yes,
to replace it.
So now I have a template that I can use so to creating you chart using the template that
you have created I'll just show you how to do it all.
Delete this chart here and I'll just highlight my date again.
Go to insert,
go to recommend a chart here and then go toe old charts and then select templates from year
.
And this is the template here of good A template Cold short one.
So click OK,
and then the new chart will be inserted according to my template on,
I believe this is an easier way to do it if you just want to change the colors.
Okay.
Ah,
this is easier than vb A.
This is not needed An expert user in excel Somebody who was familiar with the d A you know
to do it.
So that's it,
guys for the workbook.
New chart event Thank you very much watching this video I'll see on the next one